ruby/oop.md, before:

You've got the building blocks of Ruby out of the way, great! Now it's time to get into the fun stuff... how do we combine those building blocks in the most efficient and elegant ways to produce the programs we'd like to write?

The concepts you'll learn here are often less specific to Ruby itself and more widely applicable to any object-oriented language.  That's because the fundamental concepts are just that... fundamental.  Don't repeat yourself.  Modularize your code.  Have your classes and methods only do one thing.  Show as little of your interfaces to the world as you can.  Don't make methods or classes heavily dependent on each other.  Be lazy.  These will take some time and practice to implement effectively, but you'll already be taking a big step towards creating high quality code just by finishing up this section.

There's a lot to do here but stick with it!  We'll start with the Codecademy lessons, which are interspersed with their projects so you'll get a chance to apply what you're learning.  The Beginning Ruby book will help you understand the material a bit deeper, which will be important when you are creating your own projects next.


### Points to Ponder

*Look through these now and then use them to test yourself after doing the assignment*

**Note:** This is again a long list of things to understand!  Read through the list, breathe deep, do the assignment, and then come back to them.

* Classes and Methods:

    * What is an implicit return?
    * What is a class?
    * When should you use a class?
    * How do you create a class in your script file?
    * What is an instance of a class?
    * What is the difference between the CamelCase and snake_case styles of naming?
    * How do you instantiate a class?
    * How do you set the state of your new instance?
    * What should be done in the `#initialize` method?
    * What is a class method?
    * How is a class method different from an instance method?
    * How are methods you already know like `#count` or `#sort` etc instance methods?
    * What's the difference between how you declare a class method vs an instance method?
    * What's the difference between how you call a class method vs an instance method?
    * What is an instance variable?
    * What's the difference between an instance variable and a 'regular' variable?
    * What are "getter" and "setter" methods used for?
    * What is the difference between a "getter" and a "setter" method?
    * How do you make instance variables readable outside your class?  Writeable? Both at the same time?
    * Can a class call its own class methods?
    * What's the difference between when you would use a class variable and when you would use a constant?
    * What's the difference between a class and a module?
    * When would you use a class but not a module?
    * How does inheritance work?
    * Why is inheritance really useful?
    * How do you extend a class?  What does that mean?
    * What does `#super` do?  Why use it?

* Scope:

    * What is scope?
    * When can you start using a variable?
    * When is a new scope defined?
    * When are methods in scope?
    * What is a private method?
    * What is a protected method?
    * How are private and protected methods different?
    * What does "encapsulation" mean?

### Your Assignment:

1. Do [Codecademy Ruby sections 9 and 10](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-ruby):

    1. Object-Oriented Programming, Part I
    2. Project: Virtual Computer
    3. Object-Oriented Programming, Part II
    4. Project: Banking on Ruby

2. Read [Beginning Ruby](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Beginning-Ruby-Professional-Peter-Cooper/dp/1484212797) Chapter 5: `The Ruby Ecosystem` for a brief break from code to learn more about the world of Ruby.
3. Read [Beginning Ruby](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Beginning-Ruby-Professional-Peter-Cooper/dp/1484212797) Chapter 6: `Classes, Objects, and Modules`.  It will extend your knowledge deeper than Codecademy alone.
4. Read [Beginning Ruby](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Beginning-Ruby-Professional-Peter-Cooper/dp/1484212797) Chapter 7: `Projects and Libraries`
5. Read [Beginning Ruby](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Beginning-Ruby-Professional-Peter-Cooper/dp/1484212797) Chapter 8: `Documentation and Error Handling` but skip the stuff on Testing (pgs 175-179)
6. Read through these reinforcing posts by Erik Trautman to help you answer the questions in the "Points to Ponder" section:

    3. [Ruby Explained: Classes](http://www.eriktrautman.com/posts/ruby-explained-classes)
    7. [Ruby Explained: Inheritance and Scope](http://www.eriktrautman.com/posts/ruby-explained-inheritance-and-scope)

6. Read the [Bastard's Chapter on Error Handling](http://ruby.bastardsbook.com/chapters/exception-handling/) to reinforce your understanding of dealing with errors.
6. Glance over the [Ruby Style Guide](https://github.com/bbatsov/ruby-style-guide) so you have an idea of how to make your code look more professional.


### Test Yourself

1. Make sure you can do [Quiz #5](http://www.codequizzes.com/ruby/beginner/intro-object-oriented-programming) from [Code Quizzes](http://www.codequizzes.com).
2. Make sure you can do [Quiz #7](http://www.codequizzes.com/ruby/beginner/modules-classes-inheritance) as well.

### Additional Resources

*This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something*


* If you'd still like to learn more about how to really design more concise, effective, purposeful classes, check out [Practical Object-Oriented Design in Ruby](https://amzn.com/B0096BYG7C) by Sandi Metz.
* [This video presentation from Kevin Berridge](http://vimeo.com/91672848) covers major themes of practical object-oriented design, with many references to Sandi Metz's book, in about 40 minutes.
* [Zetcode's Variables section](http://zetcode.com/lang/rubytutorial/variables/).
* Now you're ready to read through [Zetcode's OOP section](http://zetcode.com/lang/rubytutorial/oop/).
* Read through [Zetcode's second OOP section](http://zetcode.com/lang/rubytutorial/oop2/) until they start talking about exceptions (~80% of the way down).

Commit message:

Removed Chapter 5 reading requirement. Most of the links and references to resources are rather outdated. The chapter covered History, Open Source Culture, and Ruby's Community. I found three respective sources that I believe cover the three topics (one from sitepoint, one from github, and one from ruby's site itself

ruby/oop.md, after:

You've got the building blocks of Ruby out of the way, great! Now it's time to get into the fun stuff... how do we combine those building blocks in the most efficient and elegant ways to produce the programs we'd like to write?

The concepts you'll learn here are often less specific to Ruby itself and more widely applicable to any object-oriented language.  That's because the fundamental concepts are just that... fundamental.  Don't repeat yourself.  Modularize your code.  Have your classes and methods only do one thing.  Show as little of your interfaces to the world as you can.  Don't make methods or classes heavily dependent on each other.  Be lazy.  These will take some time and practice to implement effectively, but you'll already be taking a big step towards creating high quality code just by finishing up this section.

There's a lot to do here but stick with it!  We'll start with the Codecademy lessons, which are interspersed with their projects so you'll get a chance to apply what you're learning.  The Beginning Ruby book will help you understand the material a bit deeper, which will be important when you are creating your own projects next.


### Points to Ponder

*Look through these now and then use them to test yourself after doing the assignment*

**Note:** This is again a long list of things to understand!  Read through the list, breathe deep, do the assignment, and then come back to them.

* Classes and Methods:

    * What is an implicit return?
    * What is a class?
    * When should you use a class?
    * How do you create a class in your script file?
    * What is an instance of a class?
    * What is the difference between the CamelCase and snake_case styles of naming?
    * How do you instantiate a class?
    * How do you set the state of your new instance?
    * What should be done in the `#initialize` method?
    * What is a class method?
    * How is a class method different from an instance method?
    * How are methods you already know like `#count` or `#sort` etc instance methods?
    * What's the difference between how you declare a class method vs an instance method?
    * What's the difference between how you call a class method vs an instance method?
    * What is an instance variable?
    * What's the difference between an instance variable and a 'regular' variable?
    * What are "getter" and "setter" methods used for?
    * What is the difference between a "getter" and a "setter" method?
    * How do you make instance variables readable outside your class?  Writeable? Both at the same time?
    * Can a class call its own class methods?
    * What's the difference between when you would use a class variable and when you would use a constant?
    * What's the difference between a class and a module?
    * When would you use a class but not a module?
    * How does inheritance work?
    * Why is inheritance really useful?
    * How do you extend a class?  What does that mean?
    * What does `#super` do?  Why use it?

* Scope:

    * What is scope?
    * When can you start using a variable?
    * When is a new scope defined?
    * When are methods in scope?
    * What is a private method?
    * What is a protected method?
    * How are private and protected methods different?
    * What does "encapsulation" mean?

### Your Assignment:

1. Do [Codecademy Ruby sections 9 and 10](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-ruby):

    1. Object-Oriented Programming, Part I
    2. Project: Virtual Computer
    3. Object-Oriented Programming, Part II
    4. Project: Banking on Ruby

2. Take a brief break from code and learn more about the world of Ruby.

    1. Read about the [History of Ruby](https://www.sitepoint.com/history-ruby/)
    2. Read about [Open Source Culture](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#why-contribute-to-open-source) in Section 1
    3. Read about where you can find [Ruby's Community](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/community/)
3. Read [Beginning Ruby](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Beginning-Ruby-Professional-Peter-Cooper/dp/1484212797) Chapter 6: `Classes, Objects, and Modules`.  It will extend your knowledge deeper than Codecademy alone.
4. Read [Beginning Ruby](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Beginning-Ruby-Professional-Peter-Cooper/dp/1484212797) Chapter 7: `Projects and Libraries`
5. Read [Beginning Ruby](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Beginning-Ruby-Professional-Peter-Cooper/dp/1484212797) Chapter 8: `Documentation and Error Handling` but skip the stuff on Testing (pgs 175-179)
6. Read through these reinforcing posts by Erik Trautman to help you answer the questions in the "Points to Ponder" section:

    1. [Ruby Explained: Classes](http://www.eriktrautman.com/posts/ruby-explained-classes)
    2. [Ruby Explained: Inheritance and Scope](http://www.eriktrautman.com/posts/ruby-explained-inheritance-and-scope)

7. Read the [Bastard's Chapter on Error Handling](http://ruby.bastardsbook.com/chapters/exception-handling/) to reinforce your understanding of dealing with errors.
8. Glance over the [Ruby Style Guide](https://github.com/bbatsov/ruby-style-guide) so you have an idea of how to make your code look more professional.


### Test Yourself

1. Make sure you can do [Quiz #5](http://www.codequizzes.com/ruby/beginner/intro-object-oriented-programming) from [Code Quizzes](http://www.codequizzes.com).
2. Make sure you can do [Quiz #7](http://www.codequizzes.com/ruby/beginner/modules-classes-inheritance) as well.

### Additional Resources

*This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something*


* If you'd still like to learn more about how to really design more concise, effective, purposeful classes, check out [Practical Object-Oriented Design in Ruby](https://amzn.com/B0096BYG7C) by Sandi Metz.
* [This video presentation from Kevin Berridge](http://vimeo.com/91672848) covers major themes of practical object-oriented design, with many references to Sandi Metz's book, in about 40 minutes.
* [Zetcode's Variables section](http://zetcode.com/lang/rubytutorial/variables/).
* Now you're ready to read through [Zetcode's OOP section](http://zetcode.com/lang/rubytutorial/oop/).
* Read through [Zetcode's second OOP section](http://zetcode.com/lang/rubytutorial/oop2/) until they start talking about exceptions (~80% of the way down).
