JS101/fundamentals-2.md, before:

Let's dive deeper into the fundamentals of JavaScript.

### Points to Ponder

1. Can you define the terms "operand", "unary" and "binary" in a Javascript context?
2. \(expand me please!\)

### Operators and Comparisons

This basic information is another crucial building block in the foundation of your programming skill.  In the end it's not too complicated despite the technical jargon, but make sure you understand this stuff before you move on!

1. Read through \(and code along with!\) [this article](http://javascript.info/operators) about operators in Javascript.  Don't forget to do the "Tasks" at the bottom of the page!  
2. [More operators](http://javascript.info/logical-operators).  
3. Some of the most common operators in programming are those used to compare values.  Read about those [here](http://javascript.info/comparison).

### Conditionals

Now it's time for the fun stuff...  So far we haven't done much with our programming that you couldn't do with simple math skills.  Sure, we've told our computer how to do the math, so that makes it quicker, but the essence of programming is teaching the computer how to make decisions in order to do more involved things.  Conditionals are how we do that.

1. [This tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_if_else.asp) is a great first glance at conditionals in JavaScript.
2. [This article](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/conditionals) reinforces the concept and provides several interesting examples of how you could use it in building websites.  
3. [This article](http://javascript.info/ifelse) covers the same basic concept \(read through it as a review!\) After reading try to tackle the 'Tasks' at the bottom of the page.

> ## Quick Tip:
>
> As we get further into the curriculum, you are likely to encounter tasks or problems that you aren't sure how to complete.  **That's OK!**  Do not waste too much time trying to figure something out when you don't have any idea where to start.  Simply give it a shot, and if you get stuck go ahead and ask for help or look at the given solution.  _THEN_ figure out how the solution works and try to code it yourself without looking.  Doing it yourself is the quickest way to actually learn, but don't get stuck thinking that you're cheating by looking up the answer or asking for help.

### Loops

Computers don't get tired, and they're really _really_ fast!  For that reason they are well suited to solving problems that involve doing calculations multiple times.  In some cases a computer will be able to repeat a task _thousands_ or even _millions_ of times in just a few short seconds where it might take a human many hours. \(obviously speed here depends on the complexity of the calculation and the speed of the computer itself\).  One way to make a computer do a repetitive task is using a **loop**

1. Read this [MDN article](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Looping_code).  It's a longer one, but make sure you tackle the 'Active Learning' sections at the bottom of the page.  
2. Once again, same info, slightly different context from [JavaScript.info](http://javascript.info/while-for) \(Skim the info if you think you know it all, but **don't forget the tasks at the end of the page**.  You learn best by _doing_\)

### Functions

Things are about to get _really_ exciting.  So far you have been writing an impressive amount of code to solve various problems but that code has not been as useful as it could be.  Imagine taking one of your scripts and bundling it into a little package that you could use over and over again without having to rewrite or change the code.  That's the power of functions and they're used _constantly_ in JavaScript.

1. [Another lengthy MDN article](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Functions) is a good place to start.  Pay special attention to the sections on 'Function Scope'.  Scope is one item that commonly trips up both beginner and intermediate coders so it pays to spend some time with it up front.  
2. Read this article about [return values](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Return_values).  
3. Next, read [this one](http://javascript.info/function-basics) from Javascript.info.  We've mentioned this before, but Javascript has changed a bit over the years and functions have recently gotten some innovation.  This article covers one of the more useful newer abilities: 'default parameters'. \(and don't forget the 'tasks' at the end!!\)  
4. Finally read [one more article](http://javascript.info/function-expressions-arrows) about functions in Javascript that will give you just a little more context.  Another relatively new feature in modern Javascript is the `arrow function`. Which is introduced in this article.  Arrow functions are useful, but not incredibly crucial so don't worry about them too much just yet.  We include them here because you are likely to encounter them as you move forward, and it's better that you have at least _some_ idea of what you're looking at whenever they crop up.

Commit message:

Add link to a switch tutorial
The w3schools lesson makes mention of switch statements but doesn't go into them, so I added one.

JS101/fundamentals-2.md, after:

Let's dive deeper into the fundamentals of JavaScript.

### Points to Ponder

1. Can you define the terms "operand", "unary" and "binary" in a Javascript context?
2. \(expand me please!\)

### Operators and Comparisons

This basic information is another crucial building block in the foundation of your programming skill.  In the end it's not too complicated despite the technical jargon, but make sure you understand this stuff before you move on!

1. Read through \(and code along with!\) [this article](http://javascript.info/operators) about operators in Javascript.  Don't forget to do the "Tasks" at the bottom of the page!  
2. [More operators](http://javascript.info/logical-operators).  
3. Some of the most common operators in programming are those used to compare values.  Read about those [here](http://javascript.info/comparison).

### Conditionals

Now it's time for the fun stuff...  So far we haven't done much with our programming that you couldn't do with simple math skills.  Sure, we've told our computer how to do the math, so that makes it quicker, but the essence of programming is teaching the computer how to make decisions in order to do more involved things.  Conditionals are how we do that.

1. [This tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_if_else.asp) is a great first glance at conditionals in JavaScript.
2. [This article](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/conditionals) reinforces the concept and provides several interesting examples of how you could use it in building websites.  
3. [This article](http://javascript.info/ifelse) covers the same basic concept \(read through it as a review!\) After reading try to tackle the 'Tasks' at the bottom of the page.
4. [This tutorial](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-the-switch-statement-in-javascript) teaches you about the `switch` statement, which comes in handy when you have multiple conditions.

> ## Quick Tip:
>
> As we get further into the curriculum, you are likely to encounter tasks or problems that you aren't sure how to complete.  **That's OK!**  Do not waste too much time trying to figure something out when you don't have any idea where to start.  Simply give it a shot, and if you get stuck go ahead and ask for help or look at the given solution.  _THEN_ figure out how the solution works and try to code it yourself without looking.  Doing it yourself is the quickest way to actually learn, but don't get stuck thinking that you're cheating by looking up the answer or asking for help.

### Loops

Computers don't get tired, and they're really _really_ fast!  For that reason they are well suited to solving problems that involve doing calculations multiple times.  In some cases a computer will be able to repeat a task _thousands_ or even _millions_ of times in just a few short seconds where it might take a human many hours. \(obviously speed here depends on the complexity of the calculation and the speed of the computer itself\).  One way to make a computer do a repetitive task is using a **loop**

1. Read this [MDN article](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Looping_code).  It's a longer one, but make sure you tackle the 'Active Learning' sections at the bottom of the page.  
2. Once again, same info, slightly different context from [JavaScript.info](http://javascript.info/while-for) \(Skim the info if you think you know it all, but **don't forget the tasks at the end of the page**.  You learn best by _doing_\)

### Functions

Things are about to get _really_ exciting.  So far you have been writing an impressive amount of code to solve various problems but that code has not been as useful as it could be.  Imagine taking one of your scripts and bundling it into a little package that you could use over and over again without having to rewrite or change the code.  That's the power of functions and they're used _constantly_ in JavaScript.

1. [Another lengthy MDN article](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Functions) is a good place to start.  Pay special attention to the sections on 'Function Scope'.  Scope is one item that commonly trips up both beginner and intermediate coders so it pays to spend some time with it up front.  
2. Read this article about [return values](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Return_values).  
3. Next, read [this one](http://javascript.info/function-basics) from Javascript.info.  We've mentioned this before, but Javascript has changed a bit over the years and functions have recently gotten some innovation.  This article covers one of the more useful newer abilities: 'default parameters'. \(and don't forget the 'tasks' at the end!!\)  
4. Finally read [one more article](http://javascript.info/function-expressions-arrows) about functions in Javascript that will give you just a little more context.  Another relatively new feature in modern Javascript is the `arrow function`. Which is introduced in this article.  Arrow functions are useful, but not incredibly crucial so don't worry about them too much just yet.  We include them here because you are likely to encounter them as you move forward, and it's better that you have at least _some_ idea of what you're looking at whenever they crop up.
