README.md, before:

# Welcome to The Odin Project Curriculum: 

The Odin Project (also known as TOP), is an open-source community for learning full-stack web development. Our mission is to provide a comprehensive curriculum to learn web development for free. We help our students to learn the skills and build the impressive portfolio of projects they need to get hired as a web developer.

The curriculum is divided into distinct courses each covering the subject language in-depth. Each course contains a listing of lessons interspersed with multiple projects. These projects give students the opportunity to practise what they are learning, thereby reinforcing and solidifying the theoretical knowledge learned in the lessons. Completed projects may then be included in the student's portfolio.

Lessons are structured through a combination of original written content and a compilation of carefully curated resources from the web. This is where the contributing happens!

This repository houses the curricular content used in [The Odin Project](http://theodinproject.com) website. (cf. [this repository](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/theodinproject) which houses the front-end and back-end code.)

The TOP community can be found in our [gitter chat rooms](https://gitter.im/TheOdinProject/theodinproject).

## Contributing

The Odin Project depends on open-source contributions to improve, grow and thrive. We welcome contributors of all experience levels and backgrounds to help maintain this awesome curriculum and community.

### Courses in Development
[These are the courses](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3A%22course%20overview%22%20) we are developing at the moment. 

Please feel free to comment on any of them with:
* your suggestions for topics we should cover,
* any resources you think we should include,
* any project ideas you think would be a good fit,
* or any feedback in general. 

Every little bit helps to make our curriculum better.

### Lessons in Development
On a more granular level, [these are the lessons](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3A%22new%20lesson%22%20) we are currently developing for the courses. Again, please feel free to comment on any of them with any suggestions and ideas you have.

If you would like to help us develop any of these lessons please read our [contributing guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/wiki/Contributing-Guide) to find out how you can contribute.

#### A non-exhaustive list of what you can contribute to help us:
* Typo and grammar corrections.
* Rewriting lesson sections to make them clearer and easier to understand.
* Fixes for broken links.
* New resource links you think would make a lesson better
* Working on new lessons and projects, you can can choose to work on parts of a lesson which are outlined in the progress list on [lesson plans](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3A%22new%20lesson%22%20) or you can work on completing an entire lesson yourself.

To find out more about how you can contribute please read our [contributing guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/wiki/Contributing-Guide)

## Other helpful links

*For more information about The Odin Project, go to [theodinproject.com](http://theodinproject.com).*

*For the source code to The Odin Project's main website (which pulls in this curriculum), check out the [github repo here](http://github.com/theodinproject/theodinproject).*

**Happy Coding!**

\* See [license.md](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/master/license.md) for usage details.

___
Created by [Erik Trautman](http://www.github.com/eriktrautman)

Commit message:

Archive all Ruby Lessons
This archives all ruby lessons as they are now in the ruby course repo. I also
added a section to the README which will link the other course repos as they are moved out.

README.md, after:

# Welcome to The Odin Project Curriculum:

The Odin Project (also known as TOP), is an open-source community for learning full-stack web development. Our mission is to provide a comprehensive curriculum to learn web development for free. We help our students to learn the skills and build the impressive portfolio of projects they need to get hired as a web developer.

The curriculum is divided into distinct courses each covering the subject language in-depth. Each course contains a listing of lessons interspersed with multiple projects. These projects give students the opportunity to practise what they are learning, thereby reinforcing and solidifying the theoretical knowledge learned in the lessons. Completed projects may then be included in the student's portfolio.

Lessons are structured through a combination of original written content and a compilation of carefully curated resources from the web. This is where the contributing happens!

This repository houses the curricular content used in [The Odin Project](http://theodinproject.com) website. (cf. [this repository](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/theodinproject) which houses the front-end and back-end code.)


The TOP community can be found in our [gitter chat rooms](https://gitter.im/TheOdinProject/theodinproject).


## Curriculum Re-development
We are currently redeveloping the curriculum, each course will be moved out into its own respository as this process 

## Contributing

The Odin Project depends on open-source contributions to improve, grow and thrive. We welcome contributors of all experience levels and backgrounds to help maintain this awesome curriculum and community.

### Courses in Development
[These are the courses](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3A%22course%20overview%22%20) we are developing at the moment.

Please feel free to comment on any of them with:
* your suggestions for topics we should cover,
* any resources you think we should include,
* any project ideas you think would be a good fit,
* or any feedback in general.

Every little bit helps to make our curriculum better.

### Lessons in Development
On a more granular level, [these are the lessons](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3A%22new%20lesson%22%20) we are currently developing for the courses. Again, please feel free to comment on any of them with any suggestions and ideas you have.

If you would like to help us develop any of these lessons please read our [contributing guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/wiki/Contributing-Guide) to find out how you can contribute.

#### A non-exhaustive list of what you can contribute to help us:
* Typo and grammar corrections.
* Rewriting lesson sections to make them clearer and easier to understand.
* Fixes for broken links.
* New resource links you think would make a lesson better
* Working on new lessons and projects, you can can choose to work on parts of a lesson which are outlined in the progress list on [lesson plans](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3A%22new%20lesson%22%20) or you can work on completing an entire lesson yourself.

To find out more about how you can contribute please read our [contributing guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/wiki/Contributing-Guide)

## Other helpful links

*For more information about The Odin Project, go to [theodinproject.com](http://theodinproject.com).*

*For the source code to The Odin Project's main website (which pulls in this curriculum), check out the [github repo here](http://github.com/theodinproject/theodinproject).*

**Happy Coding!**

\* See [license.md](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/master/license.md) for usage details.

___
Created by [Erik Trautman](http://www.github.com/eriktrautman)
